Another recently added solution to Gradle to centralize dependency versions is the dependency version
catalog compared to a Java platform project.
This is not a separate Gradle project or component, but simply a file that follows a certain structure.
So to get a catalog, we just need to add a file called Lipstick Versions thumbnail to your gradle folder,
and then Gradle will automatically pick that up in the file.
You can define several things, but the most important part is the library section.
Here you can define aliases for libraries with group name and version coordinates.
So for those three libraries, we used Petrie Common Lang as a lab for API and self for simple.
We could define three aliases like this.
Once you've done this, the aliases become accessible through an extension called Lips in the build
file of our business logic component.
We can now define dependencies by taking entries out of the catalog.
So here you use the aliases you defined.
For example, Lipscomb and Scott Lang.
The nice thing is that if you have the same dependencies in several places, you can use the same alias
in all the build files and you also get code completion and error reporting if the alias does not exist.
On the other hand, you have to come up with aliases and remember which alias maps to which dependencies,
or at least look it up in the catalog.
Also, the catalog is again a different file in different format.
This could be an advantage because it's maybe easier readable.
On the other hand, you have to know about yet another file format that somehow involved in setting
up your build and use the separation between dependencies and dependency constraints.
If you use a catalog like this, although you might not care about this and then using a catalog, this
just as fine.
It's using a platform.
I think for most projects, both solution works fine, so feel free to choose what tweets you better.
If you use this in a real project.
So I've presented both the idea of Java platform project with dependency constraints and the dependency
version catalog.
Both are solutions to centralized dependencies.
They are even more possibilities to avoid versions in build files.
For example, you can use dynamic versions in combination with dependency logging.
That's not a widely used solution right now, so I won't go into this.
In the end, the most important thing from my perspective is to get versions out of the build files
and get them into a central place so that you avoid unnecessary conflicts and chaos because versions
are something you usually regularly need to upgrade.
Even if you don't change anything, your code security patches might force you to upgrade version of
external dependencies.
So it's important to have this centralized and accessible so that upgrades are not too painful.